Copy documentation from Kyma to the module's repo (#301)
kyma-project/istio: docs/user/04-40-troubleshooting-istio-sidecar-version.md

---

> title: Incompatible Istio sidecar version after Kyma upgrade

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Incompatible Istio sidecar version after Istio module upgrade
```

---

## Symptom

> You upgraded Kyma and mesh connectivity is broken.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You upgraded the Istio module and mesh connectivity is broken.
```

## Cause

By default, Kyma has sidecar injection disabled - there is no automatic sidecar injection into any Pod in a cluster. For more information, read the document about [enabling Istio sidecar proxy injection](../../operations/smsh-01-istio-enable-sidecar-injection.md).

The sidecar version in Pods must match the installed Istio version. Otherwise, mesh connectivity may be broken.

> This issue may appear during Kyma upgrade. When Kyma is upgraded to a new version along with a new Istio version, existing sidecars injected into Pods remain in an original version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This issue may appear during Istio module upgrade. When Istio module is upgraded to a new version along with a new Istio version, existing sidecars injected into Pods remain in an original version.
```

> Kyma contains `istio-proxy-reset` <!--`istio-proxy-reset` is no longer a job. Update and explain what `istio-proxy-reset` actually is once Reconciller is ready to use.--> that performs a rollout for most common workload types, such as Deployments, DaemonSets, etc. The job ensures all Kyma components are properly updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Istio module contains `ProxySidecarReconcilation` component that performs a rollout for most common workload types, such as Deployments, DaemonSets, etc. The job ensures all running sidecars are properly updated.
```

Author: > The job ensures all running sidecars are properly updated.

Is there still a job for that or is it also the `ProxySidecarReconcilation` component's responsibility?

Reviewer: Correct, it should have been `component` not `job`

However, some user-defined workloads can't be rolled out automatically. This applies, for example, to a standalone Pod without any backing management mechanism, such as a ReplicaSet or a Job.

> Such user-defined workloads, that are not part of Kyma, must be manually restarted to work correctly with the updated Istio version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Such user-defined workloads must be manually restarted to work correctly with the updated Istio version.
```

## Remedy

To check if any Pods or workloads require a manual restart, follow these steps:

> 1. Check the installed Istio version using one of these methods:
> 
> * From the `istiod` deployment in a running cluster, run:
> 
>    ```bash
>    export KYMA_ISTIO_VERSION=$(kubectl get deployment istiod -n istio-system -o json | jq '.spec.template.spec.containers | .[].image' | sed 's/[^:"]*[:]//' | sed 's/["]//g')
>    ```
> 
> * From Kyma sources, run this command from within the directory that contains Kyma sources:
> 
>    ```bash
>    export KYMA_ISTIO_VERSION=$(cat resources/istio/Chart.yaml | grep version | sed 's/[^:]*[:]//' | sed 's/ //g')
>    ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check the installed Istio version using this method:

* From the `istiod` deployment in a running cluster, run:

   ```bash
   export KYMA_ISTIO_VERSION=$(kubectl get deployment istiod -n istio-system -o json | jq '.spec.template.spec.containers | .[].image' | sed 's/[^:"]*[:]//' | sed 's/["]//g')
   ```

```
